Git reset (#514)
Codecademy/docs: content/git/concepts/reset/reset.md

---
Title: 'Reset'
Description: 'In Git, reset is used to set the HEAD pointer back to a previous commit and optionally undo staged changes and the working tree.'
Subjects:
  - 'Bash/Shell'
  - 'Developer Tools'
Tags:
  - 'Git'
  - 'Version Control'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-the-command-line'
  - 'learn-git'
---

In Git, the `reset` command is used to change the state of the Git repository or undo commits.

## Syntax

> ```

Reviewer: Let's use ```pseudo here since this is the "## Syntax" section.

> git reset <mode-option> <commit>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
git reset <mode-options> <commit-reference-number>
```

I feel that the more descriptive the syntax code, the better. 😃

```

> The mode refers to the options for the reset command. These include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `<mode-options>` refer to how far `reset` will go in changing the following contexts:

- Where the `HEAD` is pointing towards (usually done with just `git reset`).
- Whether the staging area, or Index, reflects the commit the `HEAD` is now pointing towards.
- Whether the working tree is rolled back to reflect the changes reset in the `HEAD` and staging area.

More specifically, these options include:
```

Reviewer: Above this, we should also add a lv. 3 for that covers the `<commit-reference-number>` as well as the reserved `HEAD` keyword.

```
### Commits and the `HEAD` Pointer

Author: Do you want me to define those terms and place them above the options, under the following heading?

> ```
> ### Commits and the `HEAD` Pointer
> ```

```
On branch main
Your branch is up to date with 'origin/main'.
Changes to be committed:
  (use "git restore --staged <file>..." to unstage)
        new file:   example.txt
```

## After Committing

```
On branch main
Your branch is up to date with 'origin/main'.
nothing to commit, working tree clean
```

## After Resetting

```
On branch main
Your branch is behind 'origin/main' by 1 commit, and can be fast-forwarded.
  (use "git pull" to update your local branch)
Untracked files:
  (use "git add <file>..." to include in what will be committed)
        example.txt
nothing added to commit but untracked files present (use "git add" to track)
```

> Resetting can be done in three ways:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are three main modes for the `reset` command:
```

---
Title: 'Reset'

> Description: 'Used to undo commits to a Git repository.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'In Git, reset is used to set the HEAD pointer back to a previous commit and optionally undo staged changes and the working tree.'
```

For concept entries like this one, we can start the `Description` with a noun as opposed to a verb. (that's more for term entries like [this one](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/content/python/concepts/built-in-functions/terms/print/print.md))

Author: > this one

So like for any future entries, I should say, "In Git" or "In python" or "The " " command "..etc, if I'm not wrong?

Reviewer: Yeah, for concept entries they should begin with a noun (ideally, the noun should be the concept itself). So yeah, for future concept entries you can start the `Description` with something like "In Git", "The `x` command`, etc.

Author: > Yeah, for concept entries they should begin with a noun (ideally, the noun should be the concept itself). So yeah, for future concept entries you can start the `Description` with something like "In Git", "The `x` command`, etc.

Thank you @Dusch4593 , is there anything more I can do?

Reviewer: There are just a few more outstanding comments/suggestions that need resolves but after that we should be good to move forward. 😄

Author: > There are just a few more outstanding comments/suggestions that need resolves but after that we should be good to move forward. 😄

Hey! So I sort of gone through our "conversation" and crossed checked with the suggestions and what I have and it seems to be resolved. Also with regard to the pushing up of the context of the example we use, I did push it to after the options for the reset command and just before referencing commits which I hope is what you meant and I guess by that it's kinda done. Also there's a comment that I was a bit confused by and was wondering if you could clear that up for me?

Subjects:
  - 'Bash/Shell'
  - 'Developer Tools'
Tags:
  - 'Git'
  - 'Version Control'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-the-command-line'
  - 'learn-git'
---

In Git, the `reset` command is used to change the state of the Git repository or undo commits.

> ## Syntax

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Syntax

```

Always one empty above and below the headers.

Reviewer: Also, let's add 1-2 sentences before the code snippet below, something like "In a terminal, the `reset` command is used in the following way:"

```
git reset <mode-option> <commit>
```
The mode refers to the options for the reset command. These include:
- --soft
- --mixed
- --hard.

The commit can either be the commit hash generated by Git, or in reference to the HEAD.

## Example

Suppose a file named **example.md** is accidentally committed to a Git repository. To undo the commit, the command `git reset --mixed HEAD~1` is used in the terminal. `--mixed` is the default mode, so `git reset HEAD~1` will achieve the same result. This resets the HEAD and index to the previous commit.

**Note:** HEAD refers to the current commit while index refers to the staging area where files are [added using Git](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/git/add).

## After Committing

```
On branch main
Your branch is up to date with 'origin/main'.
nothing to commit, working tree clean
```

## After Resetting

```
On branch main
Your branch is behind 'origin/main' by 1 commit, and can be fast-forwarded.
  (use "git pull" to update your local branch)
Untracked files:
  (use "git add <file>..." to include in what will be committed)
        example.txt
nothing added to commit but untracked files present (use "git add" to track)
```

> There are three main modes for the `reset` command:

Reviewer: Everything from this line downward, I think, should. be incorporated above in the "## Syntax" section.

Author: > Everything from this line downward, I think, should. be incorporated above in the "## Syntax" section.

will update that , thank you 👍

---
Title: 'Reset'
Description: 'In Git, reset is used to set the HEAD pointer back to a previous commit and optionally undo staged changes and the working tree.'
Subjects:
  - 'Bash/Shell'
  - 'Developer Tools'
Tags:
  - 'Git'
  - 'Version Control'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-the-command-line'
  - 'learn-git'
---

In Git, the `reset` command is used to change the state of the Git repository or undo commits.

## Syntax

> In the terminal, the "git reset" command can be used by typing the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the terminal, the "git reset" command can be used by typing the following:

```

Reviewer 2: or `git reset`

```pseudo
git reset <mode-option> <commit-reference-number>
```

> ### Mode Options

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Mode Options
```

---
Title: 'Reset'
Description: 'In Git, reset is used to set the HEAD pointer back to a previous commit and optionally undo staged changes and the working tree.'
Subjects:
  - 'Bash/Shell'
  - 'Developer Tools'
Tags:
  - 'Git'
  - 'Version Control'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-the-command-line'
  - 'learn-git'
---

In Git, the `reset` command is used to change the state of the Git repository or undo commits.

## Syntax

In the terminal, the "git reset" command can be used by typing the following:

```pseudo
git reset <mode-option> <commit-reference-number>
```

### Mode Options

> The `<mode-options>` refer to how far `reset` will go in when rolling back changes, in the following contexts:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `<mode-options>` refer to how far `reset` will go when rolling back changes to a previous commit, including:
```

- Where the `HEAD` is pointing towards (usually done with just `git reset`).
- Whether the staging area, or Index, reflects the commit the `HEAD` is now pointing towards.
- Whether the working tree is rolled back to reflect the changes reset in the `HEAD` and staging area.

More specifically, these options include:

> 1. --soft: This undoes the commit but still shows the file as staged and permits only new commits.
> 2. --mixed: This undoes the commit and unstages the file and the file can be edited and committed normally.
> 3. --hard: This removes the new commit including all changes and uncommitted files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `--soft`: This rolls back to an earlier commit by moving the `HEAD` pointer towards it but leaving the staging area and working tree untouched, allowing for new commits to be made (runs by default).
- `--mixed`: In addition to moving the `HEAD` pointer to an earlier commit, the staging area is cleared to reflect the changes made in that commit (also runs by default).
- `--hard`: This removes the new commit including all changes and uncommitted files. This goes one step further and resets the working tree to reflect the previous commit reflected in the staging area and the `HEAD` pointer.
```

> The commit can either be the commit hash generated by Git, or in reference to the HEAD.

Reviewer: Can we include a brief snippet below this sentence that supports this idea?

```git
git reset --hard 7afd58d97c65c1f6df703e4ca5290747

git reset --hard HEAD~
```

Author: > Can we include a brief snippet below this sentence that supports this idea?
> 
> ```
> git reset --hard 7afd58d97c65c1f6df703e4ca5290747
> 
> git reset --hard HEAD~
> ```

Do you want it like a syntax or a redo of the entire process ?

Reviewer: Actually, we can probably omit this line because I suggested an edit up top in the "## Syntax" section that uses almost the same wording.

Reviewer 2: I'm going to go ahead and remove this line since it's redundant 👍

Author: > Actually, we can probably omit this line because I suggested an edit up top in the "## Syntax" section that uses almost the same wording.
> I'm going to go ahead and remove this line since it's redundant 👍

So do you want me to delete line 63-66? As for the edit request at syntax, what do I add as it does mention the mode and the commit commit reference.

## Example

> Suppose a file named **example.txt** is accidentally committed to a Git repository. To undo the commit, the command `git reset --mixed HEAD~1` is used in the terminal. `--mixed` is the default mode, so `git reset HEAD~1` will achieve the same result. This resets the HEAD and index to the previous commit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If an error was made in a file named **example.txt** and accidentally added and committed to a Git repository, `git reset` can be used to go back to before that happened. Using the default `--mixed` mode resets the `HEAD` and staging area back to the previous commit.
```

Author: Hey, so I sort of changed it a bit and was wondering if that is fine?

> **Note:** HEAD refers to the current commit while index refers to the staging area where files are [added using Git](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/git/add).

Reviewer: This is something that should be mentioned closer to the top of the entry (probably in the "## Syntax" section)

Author: > This is something that should be mentioned closer to the top of the entry (probably in the "## Syntax" section)

I thought since we were showing an example that it would be ok, giving a context to the example under the ## Example instead of near the top, I can still change it if y'all want me to.

Reviewer: The example is great! 😃 I'm only suggesting moving this part of the text because `HEAD` is first mentioned in the "## Syntax" anyway but this seems to define `HEAD` ("refers to the current commit"). `HEAD` alls under a possible value for the `commit-reference-number` used in the syntax code. I'll leave a suggestion up top to show what I mean.

Author: > The example is great! 😃 I'm only suggesting moving this part of the text because `HEAD` is first mentioned in the "## Syntax" anyway but this seems to define `HEAD` ("refers to the current commit"). `HEAD` alls under a possible value for the `commit-reference-number` used in the syntax code. I'll leave a suggestion up top to show what I mean.

Hey sure, so if I'm not wrong you mean to push up line 45 right?

I did not understand what you meant by 
> HEAD alls under a possible value for the commit-reference-number used in the syntax code.

Author: @Dusch4593

> ## After Committing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is what the terminal would look like after creating a new commit on the `main` branch:
```

Using headers here isn't needed, I don't think.

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```git
```

> On branch main

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ git status
On branch main
```

Your branch is up to date with 'origin/main'.
nothing to commit, working tree clean
```

> ## After Resetting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The text above indicates the following:

- The branch is up to date, with the `HEAD` pointing the the most recent commit.
- There is nothing to commit in the staging area.
- New changes haven't been made yet in the working tree.

To reset the `HEAD` pointer and the staging area back by 1 commit, one of the following commands can be run:
```

And then a code snippet, perhaps, with the two commands you'd mentioned in the paragraph above:

```git
git reset --mixed HEAD~1

git reset HEAD~1
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If `git status` is run once more, this should appear on the terminal:
```

Reviewer: I would add 1-2 brief sentences below that last snippet to explain that:

- The `HEAD` pointer is moved ("behind `origin/main` by 1 commit").
- The staging area is reset to reflect that ("nothing added to commit but untracked files present")

---
Title: 'Reset'
Description: 'In Git, reset is used to set the HEAD pointer back to a previous commit and optionally undo staged changes and the working tree.'
Subjects:
  - 'Bash/Shell'
  - 'Developer Tools'
Tags:
  - 'Git'
  - 'Version Control'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-the-command-line'
  - 'learn-git'
---

In Git, the `reset` command is used to change the state of the Git repository or undo commits.

## Syntax

In the terminal, the "git reset" command can be used by typing the following:

```pseudo

> git reset <mode-option> <commit-reference-number>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
git reset <mode-option> <commit-reference>
```

- Where the `HEAD` is pointing towards (usually done with just `git reset`).
- Whether the staging area or Index, reflects the commit the `HEAD` is now pointing towards.
- Whether the working tree is rolled back to reflect the changes reset in the `HEAD` and staging area.

More specifically, these options include:

- `--soft`: This rolls back to an earlier commit by moving the `HEAD` pointer towards it but leaving the staging area and working tree untouched, allowing for new commits to be made (runs by default).
- `--mixed`: In addition to moving the `HEAD` pointer to an earlier commit, the staging area is cleared to reflect the changes made in that commit (this option runs by default).
- `--hard`: This goes one step further and resets the working tree to reflect the previous commit reflected in the staging area and the `HEAD` pointer.

## Example

If, for example, an error was made in a text file, **example.txt**, and the changes were accidentally [added](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/git/add) and [committed](codecademy.com/resources/docs/git/commit), `git reset` can be used to go back to the state before that commit was made.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

---
Title: 'Reset'
Description: 'In Git, reset is used to set the HEAD pointer back to a previous commit and optionally undo staged changes and the working tree.'
Subjects:
  - 'Bash/Shell'
  - 'Developer Tools'
Tags:
  - 'Git'
  - 'Version Control'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-the-command-line'
  - 'learn-git'
---

In Git, the `reset` command is used to change the state of the Git repository or undo commits.

## Syntax

In the terminal, the "git reset" command can be used by typing the following:

```pseudo
git reset <mode-option> <commit-reference>
```

> **Note:** HEAD refers to the current commit while index refers to the staging area where files are [added using Git](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/git/add).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Referencing Commits

The `commit-reference` refers to a commit's unique hash, or save point, that was generated after creation. This hash is a long string that is a mix of characters and numbers that is usually represented by a shorter version: 

```pseudo
05df67f9066c8ddd95c8d7bb2137acfb8b18e167` -> `05df67f
```

`git reset` can be used with either the commit hash or with the `HEAD` keyword, which refers to the commit being viewed on the currently checked-out branch.
```

After some thought, I don't think referring to the staging area makes sense here like it does in the next section.

### Mode Options

The `<mode-options>` refer to how far `reset` will go when rolling back changes to a previous commit, including:

- Where the `HEAD` is pointing towards (usually done with just `git reset`).
- Whether the staging area or Index, reflects the commit the `HEAD` is now pointing towards.
- Whether the working tree is rolled back to reflect the changes reset in the `HEAD` and staging area.

More specifically, these options include:

- `--soft`: This rolls back to an earlier commit by moving the `HEAD` pointer towards it but leaving the staging area and working tree untouched, allowing for new commits to be made (runs by default).
- `--mixed`: In addition to moving the `HEAD` pointer to an earlier commit, the staging area is cleared to reflect the changes made in that commit (this option runs by default).
- `--hard`: This goes one step further and resets the working tree to reflect the previous commit reflected in the staging area and the `HEAD` pointer.

The commit can either be the commit hash generated by Git, or in reference to the HEAD.

## Example

> Suppose an error was made in a file named **example.txt** and was accidentally added and committed to a Git repository, `git reset` can be used to go back to the state before that commit was made. The default `--mixed` mode resets the `HEAD` and staging area back to the previous commit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If, for example, an error was made in a text file, **example.txt**, and the changes were accidentally added and committed, `git reset` can be used to go back to the state before that commit was made.
```

Reviewer: This seems like a nice place to link to other Git entries in Docs 😃

> This is what the terminal would look like after creating a new commit on the `main` branch and running [a `git status` check](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/git/status):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is what the terminal would look like after creating the new, accidental commit and running [a `git status` check](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/git/status):
```

```
On branch main
Your branch is up to date with 'origin/main'.
nothing to commit, working tree clean
```

The text above indicates the following:

> - The branch is up to date, with the `HEAD` pointing the the most recent commit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `main` branch is up to date, with the `HEAD` pointing the the most recent commit.
```

- There is nothing to commit in the staging area.
- New changes haven't been made yet in the working tree.

To reset the `HEAD` pointer and the staging area back by 1 commit, one of the following commands can be run:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```git
```

Given this is code from the "## Example" section, we should use the ```git notation for code snippets, like here.

> git reset --hard <commit-hash>

Reviewer: This one does a bit more than what the text above prescribes. The `--hard` option not only sets the `HEAD` back to before `git add ...` (index/staging area) and `git commit ...`(`HEAD`/repo) were run, it affects the working area as well.

Could we use this snippet instead?

```git
git reset --mixed HEAD~1

git reset HEAD~1
```

Both of these commands do the same thing and as the text prescribes.

git reset --mixed HEAD~1
```

To receive the commit hash, run the following command:

```
git rev-parse HEAD

> ```

Reviewer: I suggest omitting this chunk only because it introduces a new term/command (`rev-parse`) that doesn't lend much to the example. We don't really need to know the actual commit hash for `HEAD`, right? We can be assured that `git reset` successfully moved the `HEAD` pointer and, thus, changed the commit hash.

If `git status` is run once more, the following should appear on the terminal:

```
On branch main
Your branch is behind 'origin/main' by 1 commit, and can be fast-forwarded.
  (use "git pull" to update your local branch)
Untracked files:
  (use "git add <file>..." to include in what will be committed)
        example.txt

> nothing added to commit but untracked files present (use "git add" to track)

Reviewer: I tried out this example on my local machine: 

- Create an `example.txt` file.
- Ran `git init` to allow for changes to commit-able.
- Made some changes and a few commits in between.

When I run `git status` the first time, I get what's expected with the "Nothing to commit" part. But after I run `git reset --mixed HEAD~1` and then `git status` again, I get this:

```
On branch master
Changes not staged for commit:
  (use "git add <file>..." to update what will be committed)
  (use "git restore <file>..." to discard changes in working directory)
        modified:   example.txt

no changes added to commit (use "git add" and/or "git commit -a")
```

I think this is the correct output to use because the `HEAD` was moved to the correct commit and this text does indeed show the staging area was cleared (the changes were unstaged) by `reset`.

Reviewer 2: Edited the output! Also, changed the code blocks to ```shell.

```

> The text above indicates the following:
> - The HEAD pointer has moved back by 1 commit which is reflected by "Your branch is behind 'origin/main' by 1 commit".
> - The staging area has been reset which is reflected by "nothing added to commit but untracked files present"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The text above indicates the following:

- The `HEAD` pointer has been properly reset to before the accidental commit was created.
- Additionally, staging area has been cleared set to before changes in **example.txt** were added for the commit.

```

`git reset` can be used with either the commit hash or with the `HEAD` keyword, which refers to the commit being viewed on the currently checked-out branch.

### Mode Options

The `<mode-options>` refer to how far `reset` will go when rolling back changes to a previous commit, including:

- Where the `HEAD` is pointing towards (usually done with just `git reset`).
- Whether the staging area or Index, reflects the commit the `HEAD` is now pointing towards.
- Whether the working tree is rolled back to reflect the changes reset in the `HEAD` and staging area.

More specifically, these options include:

- `--soft`: This rolls back to an earlier commit by moving the `HEAD` pointer towards it but leaving the staging area and working tree untouched, allowing for new commits to be made (runs by default).
- `--mixed`: In addition to moving the `HEAD` pointer to an earlier commit, the staging area is cleared to reflect the changes made in that commit (this option runs by default).
- `--hard`: This goes one step further and resets the working tree to reflect the previous commit reflected in the staging area and the `HEAD` pointer.

> The commit can either be the commit hash generated by Git, or in reference to the HEAD.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> 
> The commit can either be the commit hash generated by Git, or in reference to the HEAD.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
